guys this might be my favorite indie
game of all time hello everybody I'm
jinchi here we like to take a look at
the niche underrated obscure and
forgotten and I am actively upset that
this game can fall under any of those
categories in my mind this game is a
masterpiece from top to bottom executing
wonderfully in its gameplay and its
narrative and its World building and its
story with its most major crime probably
being that it is a very short game like
it only will take you maybe 2 to 4 hours
to beat but at the same time I think
that makes it even more impressive that
the game could have such a lasting
impact on me in just such a short amount
of time but let me back up for a second
what am I talking about what is
transistor all right so chances are if
you haven't heard of transistor you've
heard of at least the company that's
made the game or at the very least
you've heard of one of their games at
this point super giant is mainly known
for their 2020 Smash Hit Rog likee Hades
and if you haven't played Hades yet I
mean there's probably no hope for you at
this point but I mean keep watching
anyway but super giant actually made
their big massive first hit with uh the
2011 inie game Bastion but in between
Bastion which was at the time lotted for
its narrator you know this new way of
telling the story where you had the
narrator just explaining or narrating
over everything and gave everything this
like more Grand feeling it was just a
really really cool way to tell a story
and then you got Hades which has this
amazing dialogue system where Everything
feels like the like the game always
feels like it's reacting to what you're
doing and like the characters are
reacting to what you're doing and it
just it just feels incredible in between
both of those games super giant put out
another isometric action game with a
unique combat twist and set in a world
of cloud bank which is a digital city
that is uh inhabited by digital Denison
who get to vote on everything from like
the color of the sky to whether or not a
bridge will be connecting this District
to this district and it is in this world
that we find our protagonists red in the
Crux of uh potentially cataclysmic event
that could mean the end of both
cloudbank and all of its people but I'm
already getting ahead of myself so let's
get this under way today we are
reflecting on super Giants underrated
masterpiece
transistor all right as I was saying
transistor is an isometric action game
that takes place in a digital City our
protagonist red is a very famous singer
within cloudbank but after what appears
to be a failed assassination attempt
thanks to her lover intervening she
finds herself in possession of a very
powerful weapon and Tool called the
transistor the weapon appears to have
downloaded her lovers data and code
during the assassination attempt and so
he is able to speak to us from inside
the transistor and thus serves as our
main narrator similar to the one in
Bastion but taking a more direct role
throughout the entire story especially
convenient since red also lost her voice
during the whole curfuffle combat with
the transistor works very differently
from basion in Hades for one there is no
basic attack for you to spam during
fights the transistor comes with a
number of slots for what are called
functions stylized with the names like
one would write when calling them in
actual programming most functions are A
variation of some kind of Swing or
projectile but others allow you to dash
summon NPCs and more now there's a lot
of unique and juicy bits about combat
that I'm not going to be able to put off
so let's get out of this intro section
and get into what makes the combat of
transistor so
special so I think there are three
things that really Define the combat to
transistor one like I already mentioned
is the lack of a basic attack the second
thing is the turn feature during combat
you can pause time and then queue up a
number of commands until this meter at
the top fills up after which you can
execute and red will do all the commands
in quick succession during this mode you
can also see just how much damage you'll
be doing to the enemies though it may
not always be completely accurate since
the turn can't always account for how
the enemies will move during the
execution during the cool down after
using turn you won't be able to do
anything except move around and so
you'll really want to be cognizant of
where you're positioned at the end of
your turn now these first two aspects
that I just mentioned are somewhat more
limiting than they are actually freeing
and that probably won't make for a very
excellent combat system but where the
freedom comes in and the fun is in the
way that the function system actually
works the function that we were talking
about earlier cuz you see there was
something I didn't mentioned earlier
when I was talking about them I said you
have slots to place these different
functions and determine your move set
but what I didn't mention was that each
of these slots also have yet more slots
and there are additional slots for
Passive abilities cuz you see the
magical thing about functions is that
they can all be used in one of three
ways either as a primary ability and
upgrade to another primary ability or as
a passive ability and you guys let me
tell you that this system is incredible
let me give you an example all right
we're doing this demonstration live so I
have three different functions here that
I'll be using to uh demonstrate what I
was talking about here so first off we
got ping so ping is this like Fast sort
of machine gun
projectile uh bounce which is this sort
of grenade projectile that splits up
into a bunch of pieces and then flood
which is this overtime little ball that
moves on the screen all right all right
so the first thing we're going to do is
we're going to uninstall the bounce and
we're going to install it as an upgrade
on the Ping and let's see what that does
to our ping
function easy peasy it splits it up
that's usually what it does is an
upgrade to every function okay now I'm
going to uninstall the bounce and I'll
uninstall the flood and now I'm going to
use the flood as the upgrade instead
let's see what this
does Oh okay that's cool yeah so this is
like this uh cool damage over time or or
maybe like enemy runs it over and they
start taking damage sort of thing so
that's pretty cool okay now let's see
what happens when we add both to the
Ping the bounce and the
[Music]
flood I love this game this game is so
much fun all right so that's a pretty
awesome thing and you can see how that's
pretty intuitive but one more thing I
want to show
it's What If instead of using the Ping
as our base what if we had used let's
say the bounce okay so I actually have
two copies of bounce so I'll use both of
my copies here for this last
part all right so I have the regular
default bounce
here and then I have a bounce upgraded
with the uh flood and the Ping let's see
what that looks
like
ooh very interesting all right so there
we go that was my little demonstration
of the function system and remember that
uh I'm only showing what the uh like the
upgrades are and the primary but you can
use all of these any of these as a
passive slot in addition to being that
upgrade or That Base ability so you have
all these functions to work with and you
have I got multiple copies cuz this is
my new game plus run but still all these
possibilities go experiment I love this
so much okay moving on are you guys
seeing just how fun this system is
honestly it's incredible that they
packed so much possibility into such a
short game initially you are limited by
the amount of memory you have and Slots
that you have available to you but this
will pretty quickly open up and you'll
soon be experimenting like crazy with
all these functions and the game really
does a good job of promoting
experimentation through a couple of
different means first of all you might
be tempted to sort of put your eggs all
in one basket with one super
hard-hitting move with two upgrades on
it but when you die in transistor you
don't die immediately instead you end up
losing access to one of your functions
for the next couple of access points or
save points this means that you'll
usually want at least one backup move in
case you end up losing too much health
or if you survive the encounter you'll
have to scr up a new combination of
functions and it's not very unlikely
that you'll end up
scringy gain access to this back door
area throughout the game that will allow
you to do a number of different
challenges and these challenges will
have you using combinations you've
probably never thought of before there
will be moments during these challenges
where you'll be going wait you can do
that what I'm realizing that the idea of
being able to freely experiment with
combat and then tailor the game to your
play style it's just something that I'm
like a complete sucker for the game also
features my favorite form of self-
policing for difficulty and here it's
called the limiter system you can turn
on these limiters to make fights a lot
more difficult in reward for more XP and
for leveling up faster which will get
you more function sooner so I think the
combat overall is fantastic because of
its uh uniqueness and because of the
amount of experimentation you get to do
but isn't so good that it would be
worthy of being called like my favorite
indie game of all time uh probably not
the combat on its own is not enough but
when you cop it with the world and the
story then you'll begin to understand
why this has become my favorite in game
of all
time all right so as a quick reminder
you can beat this game in anywhere
between 2 to 4 hours and because I think
the story is fantastic I'm not going to
go spoiling it here honestly I feel bad
giving any details away just because
it's such a short game but I'll give you
some extra context just so I can explain
what makes a world so compelling but I'm
going to keep it vague here and I'm
going to sa the specifics for a future
video so first off remember that
assassination attempt I mentioned
earlier that was conducted by a shady
group of four individuals who call
themselves The camarada and while I
won't give away their motivations I can
tell you that the game really makes you
feel in a short period of time that
these and every other character you
encounter or read about are authentic
fleshed out characters events don't play
out in a specific way because it's a
video game your encounters with these
characters feel realistic to the
situation and none of the characters are
portrayed as cartoonishly evil or flawed
and I love that do me a favor while you
play and please read all the lore
tidbits excerpts and function
descriptions you find in the game as you
play it'll be worth it I promise the
world of cloudbank is beautiful and
intriguing and honestly unlike very many
settings I've experienced before I guess
the closest thing you might be able to
compare to with something like Inon but
that's probably a stretch the whole town
has this sort of Art Deco Vibe alongside
the flickering lights of data and
circuitry that just makes his whole game
Feel Like A Feast for the eyes and when
paired with the music A Feast for the
senses it's also fun seeing and hearing
all the references to the computer terms
like when you hear about the users and
super users and then uh you know when
you integrate a user you collect their
function and then you got Cloud bank
which seems to to be a reference to
cloud computing it all feels like it
means something very specific the main
character red has her own separate
motivations for taking the actions that
she does throughout the story and it all
makes sense so the whole story is
twofold the story of the potential
downfall of cloudbank and the story
about the love between red and the
narrator speaking of the narrator that
bread and butter of super giant games by
a long shot the wonderful dialogue
provided at every twist and turn by the
main narrators always brings these
stories to life in such a special and
unique
way hello
world look at all
that we're on the edge of 10 100 blocks
away if you've played any super giant
games you know you're in for a treat
here just like with Bastion in Hades now
I will say that this one is probably the
weakest between the three but that's
just nitpicking I think um I think the
worst narrator from a super giant game
is still a wonderful addition and still
adds just so much to the story and
overall experience I think that's about
all I can say without spoiling anything
else so please go take the time for
yourself and go check this game out now
before we finish off let's talk a little
bit more about the
presentation can I just say that this
might be one of the most beautiful
ismetric games I've ever played I think
Hades is also up there for sure but I
think this game has a leg up on at least
Bastion not only because I'm personally
more enamored with the digital and Art
Deco aesthetic but also because I think
it's a lot easier to tell what the heck
you're actually looking at in Bastion if
the narrator wasn't there to tell me I
would have no idea that I was like in a
bizaar for example also people don't
really talk about the wonderful music
that super giant games tend to have but
this one is certainly not absent of it
they also do a lot of interesting things
with the sound too and I find it
fascinating how like for example you'll
hear red humming the background music
whenever you're using the turn and um
there's just a whole bunch of different
examples of that the presentation in
this game fantastic love it all right
let's wrap this up one thing I haven't
mentioned is that the game does give you
the option to New Game Plus at the end
while I had a lot of fun doing that to
try to get all the steam achievements
admittedly the game is pretty linear so
you're not really going to get a whole
lot out of replaying it again unless
you're just finding the combat that much
fun which I don't think is unreasonable
but realistically it's not a super
replayable game not that I really care I
mean I played Jack 2 as a kid like 13
times and um I played this game maybe
like six times all the way through guys
I think this is one of the sharpest
smartest indie games that I have ever
played the writing and voice acting are
fantastic the world is imaginative the
game play is unique I will be making
more videos about transistor in the
future final verdict please go play it
please download it right now and play it
that is all I have to say on it this
this has been jinie signing out